README.md, before:

# Anticipatory Learning Classifier Systems in Python
Repository containing code implementation for various *Anticipatory Learning Classifier Systems* (ALCS).

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ParrotPrediction/pyalcs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ParrotPrediction/pyalcs)

ALCS are is an extension to basic LCS compromising the notation of anticipations. Doing that the systems predominantly are able to **anticipate perceptual consequences of actions** independent of a reinforcement predictions.
 
 ALCS are able to form complete anticipatory representation (build environment model) which allows faster
 and more intelligent adaptation of behaviour or problem classification.


## Deep dive
Before working with code please install few required dependencies (code is running on Python 3). Make sure Swig binary is installed (required to compile OpenAI Gym environments)

    make install_deps

## Original code
The original author's code is located in `assets/original` directory.

However it was written in 2001 when C++ was quite different than now. For that reason a slightly changed version (syntax) working on nowadays compilers can be found in `assets/ACS2`.

To compile the sources type (inside `assets/ACS2`):

    make

And to run it:

    ./acs2++.out <environment>

For example:

    ./acs2++.out Envs/Maze4.txt

### Agents

#### [ACS2](alcs/acs2/ACS2.py)
ACS2 is derived from the original ACS framework. The most important change is that it embodies genetic generalization mechanism. Implementation based on *"An Algorithmic Description of ACS2"* by Martin V. Butz and Wolfgang Stolzmann.

## Contribution
Prior to PR please execute to check if standards are holding:

    make test
    make coverage
    make pep8

Commit message:

Add information about virtualenv and PYTHONPATH to README (#17)
* Add information about virtualenv and PYTHONPATH to README

* Mention different Python environment possibilities

README.md, after:

# Anticipatory Learning Classifier Systems in Python
Repository containing code implementation for various *Anticipatory Learning Classifier Systems* (ALCS).

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ParrotPrediction/pyalcs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ParrotPrediction/pyalcs)

ALCS are is an extension to basic LCS compromising the notation of anticipations. Doing that the systems predominantly are able to **anticipate perceptual consequences of actions** independent of a reinforcement predictions.
 
 ALCS are able to form complete anticipatory representation (build environment model) which allows faster
 and more intelligent adaptation of behaviour or problem classification.


## Deep dive

### Project setup

It is recommended to use a Python environment for development
(virtualenv/virtualenvwrapper/conda).

For a [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/), create it:
(only needs to be run once)

    virtualenv venv

Then, every time you want to work on a project from the shell, type the
following to activate the virtual environment:

    source venv/bin/activate

Before working with code please install few required dependencies (code is running on Python 3). Make sure Swig binary is installed (required to compile OpenAI Gym environments)

    make install_deps

### Launching example integrations

I assuming you are inside the virtual environment created before.
In order to run the integrations from the console you need to
specify Python PATH to use the currently checked-out version
of `alcs` library:

    PYTHONPATH=/Users/khozzy/Projects/pyalcs python integration/maze/acs2_in_maze.py

PyCharm IDE appends the path automatically.

## Original code
The original author's code is located in `assets/original` directory.

However it was written in 2001 when C++ was quite different than now. For that reason a slightly changed version (syntax) working on nowadays compilers can be found in `assets/ACS2`.

To compile the sources type (inside `assets/ACS2`):

    make

And to run it:

    ./acs2++.out <environment>

For example:

    ./acs2++.out Envs/Maze4.txt

### Agents

#### [ACS2](alcs/acs2/ACS2.py)
ACS2 is derived from the original ACS framework. The most important change is that it embodies genetic generalization mechanism. Implementation based on *"An Algorithmic Description of ACS2"* by Martin V. Butz and Wolfgang Stolzmann.

## Contribution
Prior to PR please execute to check if standards are holding:

    make test
    make coverage
    make pep8
